Welcome to creating the base mesh.
In this video well we're going to crack on and start modelling.
I know you've been itching to do this.
We've gone through a lot of preparation and now's the time to put it into practice.
So remember you can add images as planes This allows you to see them all the time in the viewport.
I personally am going to be adding images to the background and then it's only going to be available
when in orthographic view when viewed from the top or bottom left right front back etc..
And that also allows me to focus on the model and put the image in front and make it basically transparent
so I can see through a model.
Now create a base mesh to start with and save as when you reach a point where you can branch to make
different models.
Do remember to save as you go and do please remember to use reference material.
So go ahead.
Pause video now expect this to take maybe 10 minutes or so maybe 20.
So pause a video and I will see you guys back in a bit.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go make a base smash the rim blender.
Okay so I'm gonna start with the default cube I'm going to scale it up just a little here.
And yeah I'm happy with.
I'm gonna hop into edit mode.
Now I'm not going to hobbins adipose jets.
I'm being indecisive here.
I'm going to go down the route of a subdivision just looking at my notes that have got to the side here.
And of course once I've applied that what I can do is hop into edit mode go round to the front or for
graphic turn or a D selects everything turn wireframe on highlight half of the model and delete the
verses.
I'm going to go back in here and add in a mirror modify and turn on clipping so I can't go over the
middle part.
I'm not going to apply the mirror modifier though that's just going to sit there for the moment.
So that's the basic shape sorted out.
The next thing I'm going to do here is each drood outs the necklace cells and circle extrude that down
and let's can I have a couple of loop cuts in it.
I am pretty sure Glueck should it all the way down to here and then.
Or how many.
Maybe for around there but that looks pretty good.
K And of course down here if we're getting a rough shape I'm going to grab these two here.
Now I'm going to turn on proportional editing at this point in time.
So down here.
Turn that on.
Of course that's the o key is well turn on and off with a literally go round to the front and which
I've made in back to front.
Never mind I'm going to pull that out because a got proportional editing turned on it.
It pulls out the other bits as well and that's a relatively straightforward way of getting some detail.
What I'm not doing of course is using any reference images so let's slap my hands and add some naughty
naughty is not going to be too far off.
What I've got I hope it could be horribly horribly different.
So let's go ahead and open up see how incredibly easy it is to try on jumping crack on and then realize
that you haven't quite got what you wanted something to import.
The front and put it on the front.
MM or maybe the bat.
I'm not sure MM As popped on the front first but I'm pretty sure that I've made my model the wrong way
round an.
And then the those go down hill.
Add another image.
And then open.
Or not.
Bear here.
Must remember a stall in the side so let's just hop in to orthographic and set this to.
I dunno whether it's going to be left or right at this point.
So that looks good at the moment looking down there.
So moving to the front.
We get that purrfect solely to scale things up there but that's a good start looking from the side which
side door wants to work from.
Preferably the right actually so let's have a look at putting this on the right one now.
Good chance here I'll need to flip it horizontally so it fits.
Okay so that's looking good so far.
I'm going to go and select everything and just scale it up so it's in you know roughly in the right
place and I have to move it back slightly to fit in so that's that's a good start.
I'm going to move that round to the front and make the capacity just a little smaller as Haswell so
I can actually see my model.
That much more clearly right and round at the front as well.
So.
Well that's kind of good.
The way I pulled that up because that stretch the head and it's pretty much how I want it needs come
down a little lower here but we'll work on that in a moment so let's go round to the front image and
to minimize the right as I don't need it at the moment and put that in front.
A There I am staring at myself.
It's a bit freaky.
Okay so I'm going to start just moving some of these out and again this is only a rough guide at the
moment.
Pull that up just get the F face roughly right so that's going to be the bottom there that's going to
be roughly where the chin is so that's the bit I'm going to pull down it's a whiz.
Background to the front and pull that down.
I'm going to have to expand with the mouse wheel that so it got there now the neck is far far too thin
at the moment certainly for me are not that thin at all.
Let's move that out slightly.
That's starting to look better so that's Gramp this one down here was around to the front pool.
That's how that's looking better.
Going to pull that up but reduce its okay so we're almost there.
I think we need to pull this one out a bit further and pull this one up and that will be kind of a rough
shape starting to come together on a course.
You can spend a lot of time doing this and at the moment I'm not interested in spending a lot of time
doing this.
What I do want of course to make sure is that the model is not oddly shaped so I'm going to pull some
of these bits out just to round off the head a little.
Looks a bit odd from there so that's flic round to the side now and work on this.
So I think that's the middle Yes it is back around to the side.
You'll find yourself nipping backwards and forwards quite a bit some just rotating here to try and make
it a bit smoother as it goes round.
Pull that up a little more right where it goes in to the back of the neck.
Paul that's how it's now.
Again this is only a rough guide because obviously I need to build up detail later on rather than now
so.
That then let's pull this down to here.
Again I'm just using the reference material to make sure things end up in the right place.
A case of this needs to be pulled out much much more.
I'm not quite sure where my neck ends here.
And again I don't spend too much time at this stage basically faffing about with it because as you all
know you can end up spending hours and hours on modelling when that's not what you want to do.
Perhaps you want to spend some time with your family or just go out and enjoy the sun.
There we go.
So that's a that's a good rough shape going on that's a bit pointy round the front.
What we can do now of course is just check what loops we have at the moment.
So there is one going around the entire face.
Now that is good.
I'm probably going to add a couple more loops in now to help definition.
So where the eyes are.
This loop here is roughly in the right place.
What I can do here is put actually she just grab it.
Shift it up and make sure it sits in the right place.
We're going to need another loop songas going to grab that and push it in ever so slightly.
That's better.
So you going to need a couple of loops defining where some other bits and bobs are.
I'm gonna use such control in art have put in at the bottom of the nose for the moments and the top
of the brow.
That's the wrong way.
That's undo that's top of the brow here.
I can just get that in.
There we go.
So that's around there.
And of course remember you can go in these aren't be perfect first time round so you might have to go
in and modify these to make sure they fit.
We can see here that there would be quite nice to have a line go probably going through the centre of
the I.
So let's give that a go now.
There we go.
That's going to the centre of the eye not necessarily where we want it to be going round the entire
model.
So we just got to move things about kind of try and keep things going round features move the as possible
so on definitely want that bit in the middle.
Probably want this bit in slightly So we start to define the nose.
You could start to see shapes coming together.
Make sure that's the.
Make sure the proportional editing isn't.
Changing too much at any one time.
Or sometimes if you want to make a big big change is quite useful.
Having that now.
This bit here I feel should be brought down to next.
The front of the chin is literally where everything is going to go to.
So let's pull that down to about there.
And I'm probably going to have to not use Bridgeport just proportional editing probably grab a few extras
here and move them all down at the same time they're going around the face and nicely there s that change
the front.
So no it's quite a sharp edge there or smooth that out in the bits or even now start pulling things
back ever so slight to help define as we go.
And again we can refine this again and again and again as we go so obviously as this as you worked for
it from one angle you move things about.
You may have to come back to another and work it out from there.
Of course what it could do as well is have more than one view open once and hop between them.
I've not got too much luxury on screen space so I am not going to do that at the moment but that is
starting to come together quite nicely.
So we need a few extra loops.
We got a top and bottom of the nose rolling through the eye the brow in there I'm happy with that.
I want one around the bottom of the mouth as well.
As we can see here these things are lifting up as they go around the model.
Now that's not always desirable so I'm going to pull these back down ever so slightly.
It's just to help them go around the model in what feels like a more natural way.
There we go.
And the fact is.
Starting to look quite good now.
We can just go around the model check from the side and I am missing any features on the side.
I think probably the brown sticks out a little too far.
There we can look here.
Which one of these is the centre of the eye.
It's that one there so we can actually go well hang on a minute.
These pictures aren't perfectly aligned.
I just noticed that I thought they would be.
I do apologize suède the side one here and I'm going to let me just lift it up.
So that that's in the right place.
And then when we flip from here to here it is in the right place.
Now that's going to be the centre of the eye socket so I can actually pull that back to roughly there
and then we can work on a definition going around later and able to pull that one back ever so slightly.
I'm going to raise the capacity here.
I am having trouble seeing so we can see here.
I'm coming down foot for this particular reference model or me and coming down a bit too sleek steeply
there.
And probably about there would be good seat.
Again you move these things around and you get roughly not not perfect we're not shooting for perfection
at this point in time but so we get so roughly a right shape.
Now this is obviously all quads at the moment but we are starting to get some loops going around our
model we got a nice loop going around there to define the face itself that is important.
We'll be getting to the ear later on but it's worthwhile putting a loop cuts down there as well.
And then we've got the ear defined within a certain area and of course we can grab some of these other
ones and just move them ever so slightly to help define the contours of the head itself.
And again this is not the only way of doing this.
There are lots of different ways of doing this by like this sort of base mesh that's going on so I can
see what's actually going on underneath and start building up from a low poly upwards.
As you can see in about 10 minutes or so we've got a lovely base mesh.
Now there are a couple of other things I'm just going to do some can hop into object mode and I'm going
to turn on smooth shading to make it look a bit smoother.
And I'm also going to add a subdivision surface modifier on top of this so I can just get a feel of
how it's going.
Now you can see here it does look a bit pointy round.
Our round the actual front where it's mirroring.
So I do have to be conscious of that and it's worthwhile having a look at that now and working out if
that's going to cause us any issues.
Now of course at this point in time are a couple of ways we can solve that.
The first reason it's doing it is because the angle here is quite steep.
So we can see them make it not too steep but or I was going to say but that my interrupt whatevers here
in the first place.
Of course we can add in another edge loop and work to have our way.
So in this case I'm going to make sure it's turned on in edit mode which is so I can see if we grab
this here.
Basically we wanted to line up.
More or less with that for moments.
And that should help take off some of the pinching now around the nose.
We do want some pinching of course because well it's the nose is going to be more defined on the face
so that's starting to look a bit better around the brow I think it just needs to be wider in general
at the top point.
Here of course be careful what you do you can give yourself horns which is well depending on what you're
making if you're making a character that resembles the devil or something along those lines.
You very well might want horns on your model.
So go ahead have some fun grab something and put it up like that.
And there we go.
That's what I would look like if I were the devil.
OK.
Right back to modelling.
But do you seriously do have fun as you go it takes some of the annoyance or when you're moving vs.
round bit by bit trying to smooth out your model.
Sometimes having a bit of fun helps move things along and you never know you might actually end up creating
a character that you absolutely love but thought it was going nowhere initially.
Now I'm pretty sure it's a bit of a pointy chin for me as well.
But again that's something we can work on later.
And if it's just not wide enough as it goes around there so that should help move that out.
That is starting to look pretty good.
There's a bit pinching at the back but I'm happy with that as it is at the moment.
I'm going to push this bit in here zuki of the neck a bit more form and make that bigger as well of
course if you make this proportional editing really big you can do some strange things with your models.
So just take care with how that is okay.
I am going to get rid of this pinching at the back here iscan to try and just lift a few bits up.
To prevent that from happening.
Of course it depends whether I'm going to give myself hair I probably won't see what I look like.
Now there we go.
See what I look like with no hair.
I don't look great with no hair and look like some sort of fuck so I don't really want to make myself
with no hair.
Of course one of the other things here is if we're working on a model one of the things to remember
of course is subdivision shrinks thing so if I keep if we just lower this subdivision level you can
see as I increase its level the model shrinks as we go.
Now obviously that's got to stop at some point but it's worthwhile knowing when you start making features
when you turn up the subdivision's and it's worthwhile having this on so you can see what it looks like
once you smooth things out a little.
Once you've got that on have it.
Are your features getting too small.
We'll find out more about that later.
So I'm happy with that as my base mesh some are going to go ahead and save as why I haven't saved it
at all yet so slapped my hand again for doing that.
So I want to make sure I'm in the right folder and I'm going to call this.
Mikey's head.
Why nots.
And I'm going to save ours.
And.
I'm actually going to save it and then save as a.
Or what shall I call it head base mesh or something along those lines.
So now I know Virts I can work on mikey's head saga and reopen that site and make sure I'm on the right
file.
I'm going to work on mikey's head and I'm going to keep the other one in case I do something horrendous
with this one it gives me a chance to go back to it.
Or of course if I want to make some someone else it's a great start.
Obviously I need to move things around now you will have to of course balance the points up if you've
got a template for head.
But the person who you are doing is significantly different than the head you are working on.
You may have to start again anyway but it's worthwhile just weighing up.
If there's a significant difference.
Probably best to model it a fresh rather than try and alter lots of vertices as almost reet apologizing
about point which we got to kind of avoid wherever possible because of the time involved.
It's a necessary evil sometimes.
Anyway I am done with my base mash I'm quite happy with that.
How did you guys get on.
I've obviously modelled myself as you modelled me.
I'd love to see that.
Of course if you model yourself or a character you've created love to see that as well so remember to
share.
And of course I will see you guys in the next lecture.